Docs: 1.10 release notes, some factoring, sentinel apply update (#25433)
hashicorp/nomad: website/content/docs/release-notes/nomad/v1-10-x.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Nomad v1.10.x release notes
description: >-
  HashiCorp Nomad version 1.10.x release notes. New features include dynamic host volumes, OIDC. Updates to the Container Storage Interface (CSI) volume delete and volume status commands. CSI volume and plugin events added to the event stream. Added UI URL hints to the end of common CLI commands and a -ui flag to auto-open them in a browser.
---

# Nomad 1.10.x release notes

We are pleased to announce the following Nomad updates.

## Release highlights

#### Dynamic host volumes

The dynamic host volumes feature brings a persistent storage option to your
workload allocations.

Nomad dynamic host volumes manage storage for stateful workloads without
requiring a restart of the Nomad nodes to apply configuration changes. They

> provide a workload-agnostic way to specify resources and work with the `exec`,

Reviewer: This "workload-agnostic way to specify resources" clause feels like filler... I don't think means anything in particular.

`java`, and `docker` task drivers. You create dynamic host volumes via the CLI
or API and then configure the job with the
[`volume`](/nomad/docs/job-specification/volume) and
[`volume_mount`](/nomad/docs/job-specification/volume_mount) blocks in the job
specification.

Host volumes mount paths from the Nomad client into allocations. Nomad is aware
of host volume availability and makes use of it for job scheduling. However,
Nomad does not know about the volume's underlying characteristics, so you can
use host volumes for both local persistent storage and for highly

> persistent, networked storage.

Reviewer: This also feels a bit like filler. Maybe we mean "highly available"?

```suggestion
available networked storage.
```

Resources:

- [Host volumes section](/nomad/docs/operations/stateful-workloads#host-volumes)
  in the _Considerations for stateful workloads_ guide for an overview and
  comparison of storage options
- [Host volumes plugin
  specification](/nomad/docs/concepts/plugins/storage/host-volumes) for examples
  of how to write your own plugin to dynamically configure persistent storage on your Nomad client nodes
- [Use Nomad dynamic host volumes to persist data for stateful workloads
  tutorial](/nomad/tutorials/stateful-workloads/stateful-workloads-dynamic-host-volumes)
  to learn how to create and use a dynamic host volume for persistent storage

> #### OpenID Connect (OIDC) with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)

Reviewer 2: PKCE is only one of the OIDC enhancements. The larger one is Client Assertions, which I describe over in its docs PR:

https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/pull/25375/files#diff-5881fd55b224b5b910ab8e34cf95797b1aeb9f6e0a020c5710f3c456ab3cfe4bR77-R82

I also have a WIP tutorial here, which maybe actually explains it better?
https://github.com/hashicorp/tutorials/compare/nomad-oidc-keycloak#diff-0b5e699e7ecbab10c08f61812c8e4d69e5cdfa25dea84a8ff8b0dac2762771e7R471-R479

Let me know if you think I should change either of those (they are both as-yet unmerged), or if you'd like help writing a summary here!

- [Host volumes section](/nomad/docs/operations/stateful-workloads#host-volumes)
  in the _Considerations for stateful workloads_ guide for an overview and
  comparison of storage options
- [Host volumes plugin
  specification](/nomad/docs/concepts/plugins/storage/host-volumes) for examples
  of how to write your own plugin to dynamically configure persistent storage on
  your Nomad client nodes
- [Use Nomad dynamic host volumes to persist data for stateful workloads
  tutorial](/nomad/tutorials/stateful-workloads/stateful-workloads-dynamic-host-volumes)
  to learn how to create and use a dynamic host volume for persistent storage

### OpenID Connect (OIDC) enhancements

Nomad 1.10 extends Nomad's OIDC SSO login feature with [Private Key JWT][pkjwt]
and [Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)][pkce].

#### Private Key JWT

Private Key JWT, also called client assertions, is a more secure alternative for
client secrets. Instead of sending a simple secret, Nomad builds a JWT and signs
it with a value that the OIDC provider verifies. In this approach, Nomad asserts
a valid OIDC client without sending any secret information over the network.

#### Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)

> Nomad now enables PKCE by default by default for new OIDC auth methods. Existing
> auth methods remain unaffected.
> 
> Set the [`OIDCEnablePKCE`](/nomad/api-docs/acl/auth-methods#oidcenablepkce)
> option to `false` to turn off this extra security.
> 
> Note that although Nomad enables PKCE by default, some OIDC providers may
> require you to also enable it in their configuration.

Reviewer 2: sorry to switch this up again, but as of #25600, PKCE is disabled by default.

```suggestion
PKCE adds an extra layer of security to any OIDC auth method, both client
secrets and client assertions.

Set the [`OIDCEnablePKCE`](/nomad/api-docs/acl/auth-methods#oidcenablepkce)
option to `true` to turn on this extra security.

Note that not all OIDC providers support PKCE, and you may also need to enable
it in the provider's configuration in addition to Nomad's.
```

I'm not sure of the line length here, but I think it's ok.

Author: @gulducat thanks for catching this. I thought I did, but I guess I never pushed my commit last week. Yikes.

Reviewer 2: I think you did catch last week's - this change was hot off the presses just this morning! <3
